OPTIMIZE WEALTH MANAGEMENT - CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT FAQ (approved answers for advisor conversations)
Use these answers when a prospective advisor asks one of these questions. Performance figures are historical and not a guarantee of future results.

General FAQs 
x    CORE FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS 
 Do you only offer proprietary products? Do clients have to invest in your Proprietary funds? 
Yes and to be clear, we are an institutional asset management company after all, who’s looking to exclusively partner with premium advisors who are specifically looking to move beyond their Retail Dealer, beyond Retail Products, and beyond Retail Returns.
Having said that, it’s important to note that:
All of our portfolios are certainly diversified across six funds and five core model portfolios and all of them do leverage top global institutional asset managers and so there is an inherent diversification to all of our model portfolios.
As well, because we don’t have an Investment Banking side to our business, you’ll never have to worry about whether or not any positions within any of our funds are potential corporate conflicts of interest like you do at the bank-owned dealers.
And to be clear, our approach has certainly worked in that our investments have consistently outperformed our benchmarks, delivering returns of anywhere from 9 to 16% annually over 10+ years, in a very consistent fashion.
 How do I handle capital gains? Can I transfer in kind?  Can I purchase 3rd Party Funds or Stocks? 
The short answer is yes to transferring in legacy positions, but within limits.  We do allow some transfers in-kind, no more than say 30%, but again we’re really only looking to work with Premium Advisors who are looking to move past the Retail Channel, beyond Retail Products, and beyond Retail Returns.
And so while we do allow it, I really should point out that we’ve just found that time and time again and despite all of the rationale provided, whether it was avoiding paying DSC Fees or avoiding paying capital gains taxes despite being able to recoup both of those friction costs in the very near term through our portfolios’ significant outperformance relative to just sitting on the position, clients were consistently disadvantaged by holding on to their legacy positions by way of lower returns, higher volatility, or less liquidity.
Now we do understand that there does need to be some latitude, and so in instances where the client really does need to hold onto a third party security for whatever reason, we can certainly review this and allow for some portion of the portfolio to be transferred and remain in kind, up to say 30%… but that really is on a case by case basis and we would need to agree on a prearranged liquidation schedule, for example to sell out of a third, a third, a third, of the position over a three year period - makes sense?
What happens to my insurance / segregated fund business? 
We use Financial Horizons, one of Canada's leading MGAs to elevate that aspect of your business and client relationships. Through Financial Horizons, we're able to provide Advisors with a very competitive compensation structure consisting of a 185 override and an 80% payout grid.  But if you want to keep your insurance where it is, that is totally fine as well. 
Who owns the book?  
Until you retire from Optimize, you’ll always own and control your Client Relationships. Now should you decide to leave Optimize within the first 7 years, there’d obviously be a prorated clawback to the 2% Transition Bonus we had paid you to come over, but in short, you’ll always own and control your client relationships. 
And somewhat related to this question is that if something tragic were to happen to you after making the move to Optimize, you can sleep well at night knowing that we write it right into our Agreement with you that your Estate would receive the full 5% Succession Payout, regardless of how long or how short you've been with Optimize. 
Can I keep my branding? Can I keep my website 
We certainly do allow co-branding…and I should mention that we actually go to the extent of building you your own Fully Branded Web Page, where we even get our Creative Director and our Videographers to direct and shoot a fully Choreographed Video featuring you and your practice, which is in turn all housed within our website along with your Cobranded Team Name and Logo to leverage both your Team and our Optimize Branding. 
What is the role of the  /Transition Portfolio Manager/Client Portfolio Manager? Who are these Head Office Portfolio Managers who will be speaking with my clients?  
It’s important to note that because client accounts are managed through our Institutional Investment Platform, they’re in essence managed as Discretionary Institutional WRAP Accounts which means there always needs to be a PM at the Head Office level performing some function…whether that’s confirming the Model Portfolio with the client or answering any behind-the-scenes portfolio questions.  But everything from managing the client relationship, updating KYCs, interacting with the clients, getting accounts opened and serviced, remains squarely within your role.
However, I should also point out that at Optimize, we’ve really set ourselves apart from other firms in that all of our Head Office PMs are extremely seasoned professionals who completely understand not only how to speak with clients in a very client friendly manner but also how to ensure you are elevated every step of the way and so it really does bring a very institutional look and feel into your practice. 
Can I reduce the fees? 
The short answer is yes. But I should mention that one of the key value propositions here at Optimize is that we have one uniform and competitive tiered fee schedule, and so all clients can be assured that they’re getting the same competitive rate without having to worry about having to ‘haggle'. 
With that being said, in instances where there’s a legitimate reason to reduce their fees, whether they’re a strategic investor or supporter, then you are able to discount the account level fees to as low as 0.50%.
What happens to my License? Can I keep my license?  
Because we have both a CIRO Dealer and a PM firm, you can certainly stay licensed at a CIRO Dealer or you can work as a non-licensed person under our PM firm.  Both options are available, the economics are the same, and so it’s entirely up to you as to whether you want to keep your license or not.
Tell me about the Performance of the Funds 
Frankly, any one of our Investment Portfolios have been Top Quartile Performers since their 10 plus year inception.
All of our mandates have consistently beaten their benchmarks since inception, year in and year out, which has translated into our portfolios delivering returns ranging from 9 to 16 percent per year, and that is all done within a very low risk manner.  
For example, looking at our Flagship Portfolio, our Balanced Growth Portfolio, you’d see its much higher Sharpe Ratio of 1.11 over our benchmark of only 0.91, or from a Risk or Stability Perspective, this Portfolio has had a Correlation of only 0.62 to its Benchmark, and a Beta of only 0.82; 
It’s also worth mentioning that during Up Markets, we’re capturing much more of the Upside than our Benchmarks, for example this Portfolio is up on average 53% more than our Benchmark during Up Markets;  
And similarly, during Down Markets, we’re protecting our clients’ principal that much more in that this Portfolio for example provides on average 41% MORE Downside Protection than its Benchmark during Down Markets.
The Bottom Line is that we’ve been able to deliver very consistent and very strong performance to all of our clients across ten plus years of managing money, which is a direct reflection of our very consistent approach to diversification and dynamic asset allocation.
Can I speak with an Advisor or two that has made the Transition to Optimize? 
Absolutely, and I think that’s a really great idea. What we’ve actually done in this regard to streamline the process for all those involved is that we’ve actually gone to the lengths of putting together a series of videos with Q and As with over hundred of our Advisors.  And so, I’ll get you out an email with links to all of these and that way, you and your team’ll be able to listen and watch whenever you want - makes sense?
NON CORE FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
Is the company financially stable?  Who are the stakeholders in Optimize?
Extremely stable and extremely well capitalized; In fact, a former Exec VP from RBC started Optimize in 2009, the Balance Sheet is extremely strong, and I do know they have some pretty heavy-hitter Private Equity backers as well which they could always access.  The other thing to mention is that we use National Bank as our Custodian and they by far are the largest custodian in Canada for Portfolio Management Firms.  We also hold all of the client accounts in client name and every position is always segregated and so there is no commingling of assets or cash.  And so, you really get the best of both worlds, you get the financial stability of the 6th largest Canadian bank coupled with a totally independent and objective money management firm.
Why haven’t I heard about Optimize before?
That’s odd…I’m surprised that you haven’t as we are certainly one of the fastest growing Wealth Management Platforms. Perhaps it’s because we really just opened up our Institutional Platform to Premium Advisors a few years ago, but regardless we’re definitely getting a ton of traction, with over one hundred teams brought over in the last year alone.
For Prospective Wealth Planners going to the PM Platform: I am worried about my client relationships if I give up my license or I worry my clients are at risk if I were to give up License
To begin with, you are always welcome to get licensed and work under our CIRO Dealer Platform.  Regardless, I totally get it, however it couldn’t be further from the truth as it relates to either our CIRO Dealer or our PM Platform. What you have to remember is that the most important factor in all this is your relationship with the client, and you need to remember that you don’t give up a thing as it relates to your relationship with your clients.  And so, to be clear, you are always very much front and center with them.  
In fact, our platform actually elevates you and enables you to strengthen that relationship even more as it will remove so much of the heavy lifting as it relates to the investment side of things and enable you to really focus on the Client Relationship side of things, not to mention Financial Planning, which we have always found to carry significant weight with the client. 
However at the end of the day, if you would like to remain licensed then you are more than welcome to keep your license under our CIRO Dealer.
Are there any other management fees outside of the 0.70% Fund Level Fee?
Yes, there is also an account level fee of up to 1.45% or lower based on a tiered pricing schedule.
How does the 2% transition bonus work?
Great question - all of our advisors receive an ongoing 2% transition bonus on all new net assets onboarded which is paid monthly over 36 months until retirement, at which time a payout of 5% is paid monthly over 36 months. And I should also mention that our compensation structure even covers new contributions and PAC Plans for existing clients, as well as new client sign-ups throughout the course of your entire career. 
Who prepares the Family Office Services? (ie. Financial Plans, Wills, and Tax Returns.)  How does it work for clients receiving wills or tax returns? Are the clients the ones interacting with Optimize directly?
It depends on the services….Financial plans are created using Conquest, the leading planning software in the industry.
Wills and tax returns are prepared through our in-house Will and Tax Solutions at Optimize’s expense.
It’s also important to note that our Advisors always deliver the completed services to clients, so that they maintain the central and elevated role with their clients.
What we’ve found is that Advisors love how our platform elevates them to their clients as it demonstrates they have even more expertise than they did before.  
How many Investment Models are there?
There are six investment funds which are used across five diversified core Model Portfolios, which span the full risk and return spectrum. Each Model Portfolio is composed of varying allocations of the same Optimize Funds, so that you know how and in what each and every one of your clients are invested at all times. 
Do you offer Group Insurance?
No
Will I have office space available to me? 
It depends on your particular s ituation.  You can certainly maintain your current office if that is part of your question, and you can certainly have access to an office or a meeting room if need be in one of our other offices, but you definitely do not need to change locations on your front.
However, if you are in need of setting up your own office all together, then by all means we would be happy to help with that and in fact, in many cases we have helped Advisors find and furnish their own office space, and depending on the situation, we have even worked into our compensation structure with them to subsidize some or all of those expenses.
What is the process to get a Tax Return or Will done for one of my clients?  Will I be able to speak with a Will or Tax Specialist?
The Will and Tax process is very streamlined in that you’ll have access to the Will and Tax Specialist Team should you have any ad hoc questions.  Having said that, much of the processes we’ve created works off Online Submissions and Prep Forms and so the whole process is extremely efficient and user friendly.  We of course train you on how to do this as well as go through the common FAQs so that you’re fully comfortable as you go through the process with your client.  What we’ve found is that Advisors love how it elevates them to their clients as it demonstrates they have even more expertise than they did before.  
Who makes the investment decisions?
All of the investments and our Model Portfolios are managed in-house through our 7 Person Investment Committee.
Are assets held in Client Name or Nominee Name?
The assets are always held in Client Name and every position is always segregated and so there is never any commingling of assets or cash.  The other thing to mention is that we use NBIN as our Custodian and they are by far the largest custodian in Canada for Portfolio Management Firms.  And so, you really get the best of both worlds, you get the financial stability of the 6th largest Canadian bank coupled with a totally independent and objective money management firm.
Will client communication come from me or from the firm?
It depends on the type of communication.  For example, all of the client statements are obviously sent out by us directly with your name on it, but there’s also a ton of market commentary and financial planning content which is sent out by our Marketing and Research Team, which of course showcases you and your team.
Is Optimize CIRO, IIROC, or MFDA?
We’re both a portfolio management company licensed directly from the OSC and as well we own a CIRO Dealer Firm and so we can work with any type of financial professional.
What is communication with clients like? Do clients receive communication from the top down, or is there personalized branding?
Communication is definitely one of our strongest points.  We produce content on a regular basis which is very engaging, timely and always puts you front and center.  Statements are sent out with your name on it and there is also a ton of market commentary and financial planning content where you are of course always front and center on any of these types of communication pieces.
Will I have Access to my client accounts? Will I be able to check transaction history, beneficiary information etc?
Yes absolutely, and it’s a cloud based system which means that you’ll be able to access it 24/7 from wherever you may be.
What type of technology is available through Optimize (DocuSign,Conquest, etc.)?
Our Tech Stack is certainly Next-Gen in that every piece of software we use is very much Future-Ready, geared to elevate your client experience, and structured to put more time back into your day.  
Every platform we use is fully cloud-based which provides you with a ton of flexibility.  And in terms of the various verticals, for Financial Planning we use Conquest, for Account Opening and Onboarding we use our end-to-end DocuSign integration, and for all of your CRM and Client Account Access needs, we use our proprietary System which is leaps and bounds better than what any of the other firms are using these days.
To complete client requests, do I deal with your Custodian or with Optimize Head Office?
It’s all done through our in-house Optimize Portal and CRM which is extremely efficient and very user friendly to use.  In fact, we just rolled out our AI Powered Service Ticketing System which has streamlined our Advisor Servicing that much more and has been getting rave reviews from our Advisor community.  
Do all of my clients need emails and have to sign up electronically 
The short answer is no, but our digital onboarding and servicing is actually a huge benefit of our Platform in that it allows for the fastest and easiest transition in the industry in that accounts get opened instantly and transfers initiated within days. Another major benefit is that it allows clients to sign-up for their online account access and to begin receiving valuable market commentary, newsletters, and important updates and reminders, let alone having one place to access all of their past client statements and tax slips.
What if some of my clients don’t have emails and so how do we onboard those?
Then they can use wet signatures to get the accounts onboarded, but the one option that works really well in instances where the person can not set up an email for themselves or is perhaps too ‘old school’ is to simply set up a POA for those clients and have one of their kids or family members handle the onboarding process.  And because of our will specialists, we can easily set up the POA in-house at Optimize at no cost to the client; and so it’s really the best of both worlds for the client in that the onboarding process becomes that much simpler as the Family Member POA would be able to easily and electronically execute the paperwork while the client would continue to receive the account statements to their home.
.
What type of Due Diligence is done prior to Accepting me as a Wealth Planner or Advisor?  
Candidly we are quite selective; and so in essence:
We follow a four meeting process concluding with an in-person Due Diligence Day at our Toronto head office, hotel and travel covered by us. 
All Successful Advisors must meet very high professional and ethical standards.
Although exceptions can be made, we are really only looking for wealth management practices that are at least $50 Million in size - makes sense?  
How long will it take me to complete the Transition?/ I’m interested but I think it’s going to be too much work for me and my team.   
Our Transition program is by far one of the fastest programs in the industry. It’s very Dynamic in that we can move literally as fast you’d like…And so, we’ve transitioned some Teams in a matter of only days whereas others wanted to take it slower and move over say 30 to 60 days. Regardless, we handle everything from the account openings, to the transfers, and the follow-ups to ensure a very smooth and seamless process.
I still have an outstanding loan from my current dealer that would need to be paid back. Do you offer financing to pay that off?
I’d be happy to bring it back to the Screening Team to see what we can do in this regard, but I am sure we can facilitate something for you.  First things first though, you would need to successfully pass through our Advisor Screening Process and in the process, we would have everything assessed in terms of the potential value we can bring to you and your clients to ensure that there’s a meaningful fit.  And assuming all of that checks out, then I’m sure we can arrange something for you. 
Do I have to pay for my annual Licensing Costs and E&amp;O (Errors and Omissions) Insurance?
Yes.
Not that this will happen, but what if after making the move to Optimize it doesn’t work out for whatever reason?
First off, I really think that the more likely scenario is going to be you and your clients asking yourselves why you didn’t make the move to Optimize sooner. However, in the extremely unlikely event that you're not happy under the Optimize Platform, our Onboarding Agreement speaks to this specific scenario. In essence, it simply comes down to the repayment of some portion of the Transition Bonus which you would have received.  And to that end, we’ve built into our Program a seven year declining payback schedule of the Transition Bonus payments, and so the longer you stay, the less you would need to repay.  In essence, after the seventh year, there wouldn’t be any friction costs whatsoever if you were to get up and leave, however if this were to happen within say the first few years, then a repayment of 70 to 90% of the Transition Bonus would obviously apply, which you’ll find is well within the industry standard. 
What happens to my business and my clients in the unlikely event that something happens to me a year or two after making the Transition?  
I think we’re talking about a “Hit by a Bus” scenario here, which however unlikely it is, you can sleep well at night knowing that we write it right into our Agreement with you that your Estate would receive the full 5% Succession Payout, regardless of how long or how short you've been with Optimize. 
What does the Transition Meeting process look like?  
Great question, first off, these transition meetings can be done in person or over the phone, totally your call, however they follow a very standard format and typically take about 30 minutes to complete.  We help you with the content and structure of the meetings but in essence, they all start with just you and the client, where you explain to your client the reasons that you have decided to upgrade your advisor platform, and once you’ve done that, you mention that another reason is that under our platform you are able to provide them with a more direct line of communication with the actual institutional money manager, akin to being able to speak to an actual mutual fund manager.  
At that point, your assigned Head Office Portfolio Manager then speaks for about 15 to 20 minutes and proceeds to accomplish two key things for you and the client: First, he reiterates what you have just explained to your client about the value-add behind Optimize, and so in this way he helps you ensure that you transition all of your clients over to our platform; and then secondly, and frankly equally as importantly, he fulfills some key regulatory and compliance components.  
And so, in essence when he’s speaking, he’ll also be confirming the assigned Model Portfolio with the client, which you and he would have already gone through prior to the call.  However, by doing this in this manner, he will be able to complete the KYC on our end in a very client friendly manner and in a way that feels very natural for you and the client.  
Following that, the Portfolio Manager then gets off the call and you finish up with the client.  Prior to getting off the line with your client, you would then explain that following the call, they would be receiving the onboarding paperwork through our e-signature package, which our back-office entirely puts together for you and your team.   
My son/daughter is involved in the business, and I'd like to sell the business/book to them. Is that an option? 
Absolutely, you always control who your successor would be and to be clear, you would still get the full 5% payout without your child ever having to put up any money of their own.  In this scenario they would in essence earn back the book over the next 5 to 10 years very comfortably by way of receiving a lower trail over that period of 50 Basis Points versus your 1 Percent Trail.  
They would then be more than free to keep managing the practice for decades to come, where they would receive the full 1% trailer after that initial 5 to 10 year period, and would be fully eligible to receive the full 5% Retirement Payout when they ultimately decide to leave the business.  
As well, let’s say that you wanted them to receive a higher trail than the 50 Basis Points while they were earning back into the book, you should know that you have complete flexibility in that regard as well to reduce your payout by whatever portion you like to increase their trail by that same proportion, so you really have complete flexibility in that regard too.
Can I choose who will be managing my client relationships after I decide to retire?
Absolutely, whether that’s an associate Advisor who has already worked within your practice for a number of years or whether you need our help to put the right individual in place, either way you’ll be front and center in the decision process. 
Can clients purchase GICs?
We do but I should say that we do find that time and time again, clients are disadvantaged by going with GICs over say our Money Market Portfolio or our Income Portfolio, whether it be due to a lower rate of return or a lack of liquidity, but in instances where the clients really have to have a GIC for whatever reason, we can certainly facilitate that.
Can I add prospects and insurance clients into the CRM?
Yes you can.
I like to organize seminars and other events for clients and prospective clients, does Optimize provide any assistance or sponsorship?
Absolutely, we’ve certainly co-sponsored a number of events in the past that our Advisors have hosted and they have always resulted in helping to grow their practice and so we see the definite ‘Win-Win’ here. 
I heard that Optimize had Regulatory Issues.
Not at all, for a very short period of time, we were under what is called Terms and Conditions, but that was certainly not an Enforcement Issue in any way, full stop. It’s simply a mechanism which is used by the Regulators every now and again at the end of a routine Field Audit, is very temporary in nature, and in fact is becoming more and more commonplace these days. It’s also really important to understand that this was certainly not a situation where we got fined or sanctioned in any shape or form. Frankly, at any one point in time any number of firms will have Terms and Conditions in place.
Am I required to do KYC updates? Who does KYC updates? How frequent are KYC updates required?
As the Licensed Advisor, you would update the KYC once a year, while the Head Office PM would conduct an annual suitability assessment, which is a very efficient and client friendly way.
How can I be sure that my clients are going to be well taken care of when I retire?
When it comes to your succession plans, you’re always in control in terms of when that process takes place and how it is facilitated. Whether that’s an associate Advisor who has already worked within your practice for a number of years or whether you need our help to put the right individual in place, either way you’ll be front and center in the decision process. There is also an option for your clients to work directly with our professional portfolio management team directly out of our Head Office, but again it is totally your call. 
My clients are invested in Fidelity Insights Class (OR SOME OTHER INVESTMENT) that has done really well and so I really don’t want to sell out of that position.
Totally get it, but I would first just make the point that our equity centric model portfolios have certainly outperformed in a major way, whether you look at their 10 plus year track record of returns in the 9 to 16% range, or at our flagship Balanced Growth Portfolio's Sharpe Ratio of 1.11 versus 0.91 for its benchmark, a correlation of only 0.62, and on average 41% more downside protection than its benchmark in down markets. 
Putting that aside though, we do allow for some latitude, and so in instances where the client really does need to hold onto a third party security for whatever reason, we can certainly review this and allow for some portion of the portfolio to be transferred and remain in kind, up to say 30%… but that really is on a case by case basis and we would need to agree on a prearranged liquidation schedule, for example to sell out of a third, a third, a third, of the position over a three year period - makes sense?
Who is responsible for the book/clients if I make the move?
You’ll always be your clients’ trusted Advisor, fully responsible for maintaining and growing your client relationships. Our Platform will not only allow you to enhance the institutional investment strategies that your clients will now have access to but you’ll also have greater bench strength by working closely with our Portfolio Management team. 
What does the full buy-in mean? Do all my clients need to use all of your Family Office Services or just be offered them?
Your clients certainly do not need to exclusively use our Family Office Services if they already have relationships with an accountant or lawyer who they’d prefer to keep working with. We just want to ensure they know the full extent of our value proposition and are offered the full suite of our services.
Are you going to sell? How do I know you are not going to be sold? 
No way, no how.  Our growth trajectory is way too high, it’s a mult-generational firm, and so selling is just not a possibility.  Now this is in stark contrast to a lot of the firms out there though which are just being built and aggregated to be sold off, leaving Advisors and Clients to find their footing after the dust settles.  
And so, it’s a great question and one that would be top of my mind but as it relates to our firm, there is no way this will ever happen and so the risk is simply not there.
Are the Performance Numbers net of fees?
The performance numbers are net of all fund level and performance fees but gross of the account level fee. This is standard practice for the institutional world as the account level fee can vary from client to client depending. 
Are we able to have Non-Resident accounts?
Yes, in fact we have an Investment Firm in the US and so you can help clients in the States with all of their investment and account type needs.
Since your portfolios are mostly large cap, how will things change when the markets shift and large cap is no longer a good investment?
Having a Large-Cap emphasis to our security selection has consistently provided our clients with a great deal of stability and liquidity, however we have always been very dynamic and tactical with respect to our asset allocation processes, and so, we will not hesitate to make proactive adjustments to every client account the moment we see the need to do so based on the prevailing market conditions. 
Do we provide Trust and Corporation tax returns for clients?
No, we’ve just found that in the past, clients with those needs almost always prefer to work with accountants who also provide complete bookkeeping services, which is just too far from our core wealth management offering to make it make sense.
HIGH LEVEL FAQS
What is the Optimize Advisor Platform?
Written Response: The Optimize Advisor Platform is a full-service institutional asset management program designed for a select group of premium financial advisors. Unlike a traditional retail dealer, we're an institutional money manager dedicated to partnering with high-quality advisors who want to deliver institutional-level investments and returns to their clients.
What are the key benefits for my clients?
Written Response: Our institutional platform brings value to clients in several key areas. We offer a Family Office-type service with in-house specialists for wills, taxes, and financial planning at no extra cost. We also provide a streamlined fee structure with no annual administration or custody fees. Your clients will gain access to completely independent and institutional investment solutions—not just retail products—and a track record of delivering premium institutional returns with less volatility. Finally, your clients will benefit from the global financial strength of our custodian, NBIN, the largest custodian in Canada.
What is the compensation structure for advisors?
Written Response: We offer a fully equitable and transparent compensation structure for all our premium advisors, with no grids or hidden fees. It has three main components: a Transition Bonus of 2% on all assets that come over to the platform, an ongoing trailer fee of 1%, which is 100% payable to you, and a Succession Payout of 5% based on the final value of your book when you retire.
How does your technology platform help my practice?
Written Response: Our technology platform is designed to be a fully integrated ecosystem that saves you significant time and elevates the client experience. It eliminates your team's non-core activities by automating tasks like paperwork and manual trading. This means you can get 50 to 80% of your time back to focus on higher-impact activities. Our platform is comprised of a curated suite of best-in-class technologies, all accessible through a single sign-on at no cost to you.
5. What is the process for transitioning my practice to Optimize?
Written Response: We provide a dynamic and seamless transition process tailored to your specific timeline and needs. Our transition program consists of four key stages, all guided by a dedicated Transition Manager. It begins with a Kick-Off and Orientation to create a customized project plan. Next is the Marketing and Branding Stage, followed by Training and Support through our Optimize Academy. The final stage is the Launch, where you'll be able to monitor the progress of your account openings and asset transfers through real-time dashboards.
6. What are the criteria for becoming an Optimize advisor?
Written Response: We are highly selective and our platform is only available to advisors who pass our rigorous screening process. Our primary criteria are a minimum book size of $50 million and a solid track record with a strong reputation. We are specifically looking for advisors who want to move beyond the retail channel and have a proven client-first approach and a deep commitment to professionalism. Exceptions can be made on book size for advisors with an exceptionally strong track record.
General FAQs
How many In house tax and will specialists do we have? How do I know that there won’t be any issues getting my clients tax returns/wills.
We have a very large and growing team of fifty plus family office specialists who are dedicated to providing your clients with a premium level of service which is constantly expanding to always ensure that there is excess capacity and we are delivering well within our service level standards.
Can my clients speak with the Lawyers to draw up the wills so make sure there are no mistakes?
The Will and Tax process is very streamlined in that you’ll have access to the Will and Tax Specialist Team should you have any ad hoc questions.  Having said that, much of the processes we’ve created works off Online Submissions and Prep Forms and so the whole process is extremely efficient and user friendly.  
We of course train you on how to do this as well as go through the common FAQs so that you’re fully comfortable as you go through the process with your client.  What we’ve found is that Advisors love how it elevates them to their clients as it demonstrates they have even more expertise than they did before.  
Which AI service do we use for our Interactive Service Agents?
We use an AI platform we partially developed in-house and partially leveraged Anthropic’s AI.
What new AI integrations do we see Optimize implementing over the next 5-10 years.
We've already incorporated AI in a major way into our Financial Planning optimization tool for our Advisors, and we're also working to implement AI note taking functionality to streamline your follow-up process after every client interaction.  But it really is an extremely exciting time for our firm as we have really leaned into AI Technology and can see really amazing benefits for both our advisors and their clients by way of significantly increased efficiency and improved service levels.
Explain the logistics of the Financing option when purchasing books within the company.
It’s really quite simple and straightforward in that so long as you don’t pay more than 2% for any book, we’ll fully finance any transaction that you are looking at completing.  And because you’ll continuously receive the 2% Transition Bonus on all net new assets that you bring over onto our Platform, combined with the annual 1% ongoing revenue on these assets, you’ll be cash flow positive from Day 1 of any transaction. 
Can you structure Succession Payout as Capital Gains instead of income? 
Absolutely.  It does require that payments are made over a 5 or 6 year period as opposed to a three year period, but that is certainly an option here at Optimize and will provide you with that much more on an after-tax basis.
How fast can you transition?
One of the most dynamic and fastest transition programs in the industry, typically moving 50 households per week…but we always go at the Advisor's pace and so if you need to go faster, we can and have certainly done that as well.
What’s your retention rate of clients transitioning over?
We have always seen near 100% book retention for our incoming Advisors.  Sometimes, we do see Advisors take the opportunity to cull some of their book as they come over, but we always see 100% retention of the clients they do want to bring over.
What about Non-Competes, how do you get around those?
I really would not worry about that at all.  We provide 100% indemnity and would be happy to review any Non-Compete that you have.  But again, that is certainly not something you should be concerned about.
What is your AUM?
When you factor in the assets managed directly by our funds and through our sub-managers, the AUM is just under $100B.
Do you have enough to pay me?How do you make money? 
First off, we are extremely well capitalized and our balance sheet is even stronger.  Now the reason we can and the reason we’re willing to pay what we do for Premium Advisors is really two-fold.  First, it reflects our belief that Premium Advisors have long since been undervalued in our industry.  
And second, unlike the typical Retail Dealer out there which is barely treading water or is just being built to be sold, we take a much longer-term perspective, happily paying up for high-end advisors rather than focusing on short-term business goals and needs - makes sense?
Do we help with financing for buying new books (Provide loans to advisors)?
Yes absolutely.  So long as you are accepted onto our platform, and you pay no more than 2% for any book of assets, we will provide you with full financing for any transaction.
Do we invest in advisors looking to gain new designations and accreditations?
Yes, there is a definite win-win in that type of sponsorship.
Do you guys have an ESG component to your investments?
Yes, clients will certainly get ESG exposure through our Portfolios’ Pension Style Assets with investments in clean energy and Clean Tech. Having said that however, our Investment Committee is first focussed on delivering solid risk adjusted rates of returns to our clients and so while ESG may not be their primary objective, it certainly is present as a byproduct.
Can I be an Executor for my clients?
Yes 
Who is your custodian?
We use NBIN as our Custodian who is by far the largest custodian in Canada. And so, you really get the best of both worlds, you get the financial stability of the 6th largest Canadian bank coupled with a totally independent and objective money management firm.
Do you act as a matchmaker/ Is there an opportunity for me to buy out other books?
Yes we do and there are certainly going to be many opportunities for you to acquire books of clients here at Optimize as we do have a large number of advisors approaching their retirement stage.
Where’s your other offices in my location? Do you even know my market
We have Advisors from coast to coast.
Is there an opportunity to own part of Optimize / Get Shares in Optimize?
No, our compensation is purely cash-based as we believe that form of advisor compensation is the most transparent and equitable form of compensation. This way, you and your family can be certain and rest assured of the actual value that you will receive when joining our firm as opposed to worrying about whether or not you are just receiving some piece of paper that may or may not be worth anything at the end of the day, which as we all know has unfortunately happened many times in our industry.
What type of accounts don't you manage?
We manage all investment account types.
What is the process for bringing on clients in the U.S. or elsewhere?
Very streamlined, just as in Canada, clients can utilize our onboarding technology so that we make it as easy as possible for them.  If it is in the US and you want to help them with their US Accounts, then we will have one of our US Advisors manage the investment side of things while you manage the relationship and continue to receive ongoing compensation similar to an ongoing referral fee.  
Can I still be paid to my corporation?
Yes.
How does a share purchase of my corporation work from a succession standpoint?
In short, we will buy the shares of our corporation so that you can minimize taxes as much as possible.  It does require that payments are made over a 5 or 6 year period as opposed to a three year period, but that is certainly an option here at Optimize and will provide you with that much more on an after-tax basis.
Will I still have annual head office audits if Optimize is the PM for the client? 
Yes
Can I still run the Group Benefits side of my business given that Optimize does not currently provide this service?
Yes
Is there any down-time to onboarding my clients if it takes a week or two for my license to port over?
Not at all, there are actually plenty of activities which you can be doing which do not require licensing such as scheduling and meeting with clients during this period so long as you do not provide investment advice for that short period.
Am I considered an employee of Optimize?
No
I have a referral arrangement with CC&amp;L/Guardian for a block of my clients. Can that continue and can I continue to get paid on those clients?
Yes
What's your cyber security and how do I know you aren't going to get hacked with all the sensitive client data being on your web-based system?
We regularly review all of our technology partners on an annual basis to ensure that we are using the largest and most secure Tech providers.  We also audit specifically that our technology partners are all SOC 2 Certified which ensures client data is safely held and stored.
Why did you guys select me? (specifically for situations when we're talking with advisors with smaller books)
We are specifically looking for advisors who want to move beyond the retail channel and have a proven client-first approach, a deep commitment to professionalism, and a solid track record within their community. And while our minimum book size is $50 Million, we can make exceptions on a case by case basis, which will become evident as you go through our screening process.
